# CS300-ABCU-Advising-Program-Project
Advising Program for ABCU for class/prerequisite printing and sorting.

For the projects in this course, we were tasked with creating a program that would read, parse, sort, and print the contents of a .csv file that contained the numbers, names, and prerequisites for college courses at a hypothetical university called ABCU. To solve create the program, we chose on of three data structures (vectors, hash maps, and binary trees) to implement into our program to store and print the data from the .csv file. We learned about these types of data structures during the course. Understanding data structures is important because they are the foundation for organizing, storing, and manipulating data in software development. Selecting the correct data structure for your program can have a huge impact on the performance of the final product. 

Throughout the course, we were given starter code that we would fix portions of to get the program to run smoothly. The biggest challenge for me for the final project was to write the code for the sorting program from scratch without the help of any starter code. It was daunting to create a program from the group up, but it was also very rewarding to figure it out and have it compile as intended. What really helped me was to break the project down into different functions and figure out how to get each function to work by itself, then bringing them all together in the main() function at the end. This approach made the project more manageable and also allowed me to focus on the each individual functions functionality, and made the entire process less overwhelming. 

This project was the most complex C++ program that I have created thus far in my studies and it was very satisfying to create something that like this from the ground up. I learned how to compartmentalize each piece of a project and solve it step by step. Working on this project has also taught me how to think outside of the box, and how to use best practices to create legible and easy to understand code. When writing my functions, I tried to list them out in a way that was easy to understand and was organized logically. Doing so helped make the code clearer for both myself and anyone who view it in the future. 
